---
layout: post
title: "C25: Essential Chinese Indie Releases 2025"
date: 2025-12-25
lang: en
ref: c25
summary : A non-ranked selection of essential Chinese indie releases from 2025, mapping the diversity and evolution of the scene.
categories: [lists]
tags: [Chinese indie, post-punk, shoegaze, emo, 2025]
---
I am aware that there are many brilliant works that didn't make it onto this list, but it's impossible to include everything.

There is no ranking. You can start anywhere and in any order. Of course, I would be happy if you listen them all.

I've also made playlists on Apple Music, Spotify and NetEase Cloud Music. Listen on whatever platform you like. Due to uncontrollable restrictions, some tracks are not available on all platforms.

[spotify playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1rHkKCfZjgmw0TgLibqbH0)

## Riot in School - //Punk Rock Blasphemy (Chengdu)

Must be the best album of the year. The surging energy evident here was less apparent in their previous works. Having initially found fame with grunge and 1990s alternative rock, the band has moved into post-hardcore/emo realm. Maybe due to pent-up frustration. This second album features various non-rock elements, reflecting the increasingly diverse musical tastes of the younger generation within the indie music scene. They are even rapping!

## Endless White - Between Time (Xi'an)

Xi'an's indie/alternative four-piece released their latest EP to celebrate their 10th anniversary. Their full-length album was also one of my favourite albums of 2023. This work is built on that, with more synth elements that are easy to spot. Yigua, the main singer, is now performing with the Xi'an post-punk band Jumping Goat as a proper member. This might have changed her creative direction.

## Red-Haired Boy Murder Case - Brutal Girl Delusion (Guangzhou)

Started as a band that played Number Girl covers. The deep influence from the 1990s Japanese alternative rock band feels more like obsession than imitation. Using the vocabulary of Shutoku Mukai, they show the feeling of things not being permanent among young people living in smaller cities of modern China. For more on that, please read the interview article with singer Kang Jun. Their intense live shows often make fans think of them as emo/post-hardcore. They are currently looking for a new guitarist. The band’s future is unclear.

## Chestnut Bakery - Tomorrow (Zhuhai)

A shoegaze/dreampop act formed in Zhuhai in 2011. As all three members live in Europe, they are not very active, but they are one of the most popular Chinese bands in the international shoegaze fandom.

## Ecke Wu - The Unwaking Dream (Germany)

She is best known as the lead singer of Forsaken Autumn, one of the most prominent bands in the 2010s Shanghai shoegaze/dream pop scene. She continues to perform as a solo artist, releasing her own work from her home studio from time to time. This album blends ambient folktronica with bedroom pop and explores the theme of dreams. The single "Tiny Cosmos", released in the summer, is also noteworthy.

## Love Letter Lost - Secret Words (Guangzhou)

Siyu, formerly of the well-known band Pocari Sweet, has formed a new group. Their first EP was released in March this year. The noise elements are toned down, so it's easy to recommend even to those concerned about their listening health.

## Milk Guard - Defrost (Nanjing)

This is a shoegaze band of students from Nanjing with a unique touch of Minnan flavour, brought by the Taiwanese members. Compared to their previous work, there is less noise and they seem to be moving towards what could be called indie folk, as demonstrated by their acoustic cover of a Slowdive song.

## The Cheers Cheers & Chestnut Bakery - Sleep Well, Talk to You Soon

This collaborative single was released by two bands that gained particular prominence in the 2010s Southern shoegaze scene. Wang Keguan, the former singer of City Flanker, started The Cheers Cheers as a solo project, and it has since evolved into a full band.

## Rubur & Asthenia (Shanghai & Beijing)

Veteran Shanghai heavy gothic shoegaze band is back with a new single after a three-year hiatus. For this release, they teamed up with a Beijing post-black metal artist. The gothic vibe is more pronounced than before。

## The Bootlegs - 幻灯片 (Qingdao)

A lo-fi bedroom surf rock band who, like the Ramones, always produce songs that sound rather similar. Only pure genius could create such great melodies and riffs。

## Rats & Pears - The Well of Shame (Xi'an)

A debut album is filled with power and fury. The three-piece female band chose a raw, noisy, and aggressive post-punk style to represent the voices of women。

## Hex in Sparkle - The Ballads of Girlhoods (Chengdu)

Formerly known as Fake Orgasm, the electro trio made their debut with a concept album depicting a girl's journey of self-discovery. Although their punk background is evident, their sound is heavily influenced by dance music and is reminiscent of the riot grrrl movement。

## Wishtoday - The Ministry of Pain] (Zhengzhou)

Lately drawing particular attention in the emo scene, they're at the forefront of Chinese rock. It's able to be listened to in the context of progressive rock/post-punk. "Wishtoday" is internet slang derived from Henan dialect, meaning something like WTF or OMG。

## Jimmy's Guess - self title (Jiaozuo)

Lo-fi/garage/surf pop started by local skateboarding friends. I recently learned that the vocalist from Wishtoday plays guitar here。

## Cod Burger - Cod Burger II (Xinxiang)

"II" must indicate that it is their second album. It has a garage punk vibe through Sonic Youth. I recently found out that they share CD members with XinXiang's noise rock The Columbian Cola Ltd。

## Acid Room - Spiraling Bird Struck by Lightning (Suzhou)

A noise rock new force formed in 2022. They possess enough quality to be seen as the next-generation Carsick Cars. With a modern NeZha vibe and even cover 七八点, a pioneer of Nanjing's indie rock, in live performances. Incorporating surf rock technique. Having strong support from the emo scene. It's an all-in-one package. For ages I could only listen to the single "Yao Ye Shan Chuan", but finally an EP release.

## Yaredai Sad Sad - Melancholics Subtropics (Guangzhou)

An emo/shoegaze band gaining attention in Guangzhou. Their debut EP shares its title with the band’s Chinese name and references Tristes Tropiques by Claude Lévi-Strauss. The EP was released by Qiii Snacks Records. They later posted “We never play emo anymore” and halted activities. They seem to intend to resume eventually. 


## Fiery Medusa - Eyes Looking Down (Shanghai)

A post-punk outfit made up of Shanghai students. Wearing P.K.14 T-shirts and embracing the No New York aesthetic, their direction is clear. I hope they continue their activities.

## Sleepwalkin' Zoo - Eclosion (Guangzhou)

Retaining a shoegaze/noise pop identity, this work incorporates trip-hop and electronic dance pop, evolving into a dark alternative rock sound reminiscent of contemporary British indie.

## Lonely Cookies - Ouch! (Hangzhou)

An indie rock band that moved from Wuhan to Hangzhou. A modern, fun power pop album loved by all ages. Leader and vocalist/guitarist Zoo has deep knowledge of Japanese subculture, incorporating plenty of 1990s J-pop styles in this latest album. The MV shot in Wuhan lets you experience modern Chinese nightlife.

## Silly Function - It’s Just a Feeling (Wuhan)

They are best known for their catchy melodies and straightforward guitar-driven rock. On this EP, however, they slow down. Since the band's main vocalist, Wang Yi, appeared as a 'wage slave' in the Lonely Cookies' music video, the languid atmosphere may be influenced by being overwhelmed by work.

## Whetherday - Whetherday (On a Very Sudden Day) (Hangzhou)

They are often recognised as an emo or jungle pop group, but this EP has an overall Californian vibe, fusing vigorous garage punk. It is tagged as "psychedelic pop" and "lo-fi" on the Bandcamp album page. Fans of The Brian Jonestown Massacre will enjoy it.

## Thermostat - Daria (Beijing)

You will feel as though you are intruding into someone's private life. When I interviewed with the artist, he described his music as "something in between ambient, dream pop, and lo-fi". The puppy on the cover is a stuffed animal bought at a flea market. Check out our interview.

## Feed - First EP (Xiamen)

Someone told me, 'There are post-punk bands in the south, too!' This is what they meant. Xiamen's garage-style indie. They probably inherited traits from 1960s psychedelia. Or, more easily understood as being in the lineage of Berlin Psycho Nurses.

## KyoYoko - Mirror Chamber (Beijing)

Funky, jazzy, disco-punk, reminiscent of early The Rapture. Urban and stylish post-punk. Their live performance in Japan last year was well-received, and they gained support at SXSW in Australia. Perhaps a side project by members of Fancy Wall.

## Naja Naja - Sheep Out of the Box (Beijing)

A duo carrying on the Beijing post-punk tradition. Influenced by Russian and Eastern European darkwave, they are attempting to escape clichés.

## Silent Elephant - Silent Elephant (Fuzhou)

Shows post-rock elements, but follows southern indie pop/noise rock. The guitar texture and bass lines are clearly reminiscent of New Order's "Ceremony" era.

https://music.163.com/song?id=2716138090

## Samecup - Illusion (Hangzhou)

I think they were a danceable coldwave band that heavily used synthesizers, but all the tracks released this year are psychedelic indie pop. I suspect the closest comparison is Pulp.

## Lur: - This Is the Night, Flames or Dawn (Xi'an)

They started their career as a duo playing Russian and Eastern European-style darkwave, but this year they signed with Modern Sky and shifted their musical style toward lighter, more whimsical dance tunes. It's still dark, though.

## South Acid Mimi - Lovers of Highway (Kunming)

An electro synth-pop trio from the thriving indie scene in Kunming. Their unexpected single has the feel of the soundtrack to a Lynchian road movie.

## The Hormones - Dream of Doomsday (Chengdu)

Their name suggests they're a punk band, but they play well-produced, grunge-influenced alternative rock. Its members are Sichuan Conservatory of Music alumni and have strong links to Stolen and Hiperson.

## Run Run Run - Tea Picking (Beijing)

Once known for their pure psychedelic rock and krautrock, but in recent years they have mainly focused on party music based on folk songs. This single draws inspiration from the antiphonal mountain songs of southwestern Guizhou.

## ZanShi - Shennong Tastes the Hundred Herbs, Volume One (Zhengzhou)

These young Henan dudes were thrust into the spotlight after going viral online, propelling them into the ranks of popular bands. The band blend the vibe of classic Chinese rock with modern progressive elements. The vocalist is apparently nicknamed 'Henan's Dou Wei'.

## Wordless Orange - Guru Orange (Wuhan)

All I know is they sound like Super Furry Animals. Maybe it's soul jazz. At one point, their ads were popping up frequently on Instagram.

## The River, Orchestration, Walkman! - Eternal Summer (Guangzhou)

An improvisational collective that is enjoyable even for people unfamiliar with avant-garde or experimental performances. Their humour makes them the perfect introduction to free jazz. Saxophonist and band leader Xiao Zu collaborates frequently with Shenzhen's indie rock act The Three Mice.

## Jingdezhen Renaissance - Cloud City Pt. 2 (Jingdezhen)

They are a band characterised by theatrical staging — or perhaps they are a theatre troupe that plays music. Their true nature remains unclear, but their music feels like a blend of art rock and traditional music. In their series of works, 'Cloud City', released one after another this year, they have incorporated electronic sounds, showing a change in style. Perhaps that has always been their approach.

## Instinkto Industrio - Walking Alone Under the Scorching Sun (Kunming)

A mysterious Yunnan ensemble who use dance music from around the world to transform live venues into ballrooms. Their second album, released on 1 April, has been well received, even in rock circles. I interviewed Aya, the flutist, after this release, so please refer to that for more details about the band.

## Pumpkins - Youth in a Small Town (Xinxiang)

They are a well-known punk/garage band from Henan. Alongside The Fallacy, they are considered the most important bands in the Henan rock scene. It looks like Zhengzhou's younger bands are inspired by Thee Michelle Gun Elephant, and I think this is mostly because of this band. I thought they were punk, but this time they've changed direction, going for a psychedelic style that can be called the best of their career so far.

http://music.163.com/song?id=2702072247&userid=8112341289d

## TV Party - South, Somewhere, Somehow (Lanzhou)

The edge of no-wave and the soul of hardcore punk combine to create a type of music that is loved by many. This is a joint release with Shengzhen's Fuck Commercialization, so it's essentially DIY. They were high school students, so I had high hopes for the future, but recently they announced their disband.

## The Beneficial Society - The Beneficial Society (Hangzhou)

Started out as a post-hardcore/emo band made up of high school students. I would describe their music as progressive rock/art rock, with comparisons to bands like BC, NR, Black Midi or TV Continental Ondo. They even undertook a tour of Japan at the invitation of Soccer, but have announced that they will disband by the end of the year.

## Yoko the Printer - The Promenadology of Park Vol.01 (Guangzhou)

Somehow reminiscent of Flipper's Guitar—sophisticated Cantonese indie pop. It has the feel of a band run by cool young neighbours, which is very Guangzhou.

## XiangXiang & I'm Fine! Thank You! And You? - It's Your Tune (Guangzhou)

Double A-side split single. XiangXiang (who was treated like YourBoyfriendsucks 2.0) and IFTYAY (with roots in Jo's Moving Day) have provided songs for each other. It also includes their original demos, so it's interesting to hear the differences.

## Nein Or Gas Mus - Ink (Guangzhou)

The backbone of Guangzhou's emo/math rock scene, a workaholic band active in between jobs. This single, their first release in five years, skilfully conveys the unstable emotions experienced by adults battered by society through steady, mature playing. I would even recommend it to people who find math rock a bit tough.   

## Right Together - Spring Comes Late (Huizhou)

A Guangdong band that dresses proper math rock in kawaii pop outfits. You often see their name as openers for Japanese bands' Guangzhou shows. Musically, it might be idol-style or K-pop, or perhaps Hanazawa-like. Not long ago, they changed their English name from YouCeHeLiu.

## Fayzz - Patch (Chengdu)

I'm not knowledgeable about post-rock, so I don't have much to say in particular, but maybe they're successors to Envy or Toe.

## Shallow End - Jiming Temple (Beijing)

I'm not knowledgeable about post-rock, so it's hard to comment on the style, but if anything, this single feels like "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly."

## Lost Memory Machine - Anima (Beijing)

A Chinese-German duo. I would describe their music as lo-fi trip hop, although perhaps it should simply be labelled electronica with its roots in dream pop.

## Taiga - Nomadelic (Chengdu)

A pair of musicians from Chengdu who have Uyghur and Mongolian backgrounds are bringing the spirit of nomadic horse-riding peoples to dance music. I don't know much about electronic music, but this is impressive.

## FAZI - F is not Free (Long Arm Remixies) (Xi'an)

Xi'an's heavyweight post-punk outfit has undergone notable style changes again. They re-recorded their classic track for "Oriental 101 w Future Prairie" (the best album of 2024) last year, and this time, it was remixed by Russian electronica musician Long Arm. The original Chinese title has been used for the translation of 'Psychedelic', but the result is more industrial.

## The Fallacy - The Fallacy at CCLIVE (Xinxiang)

Established in Xinxiang, Henan Province, this year, CCLIVE is a live studio modelled on KEXP that broadcasts live performances by excellent indie bands from across China. The Fallacy is definitely one of the best rock bands in China, and they have been active in the city since they first started. It is clear that the appearance of the country's most acclaimed post-punk band on the show, and even the release of the live recordings, is an effort to support indie bands that have not received enough attention.

You can subscribe to the CCLIVE YouTube channel now.